Release notes for version 22.10 (#1806)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-22.10/releases/centreon-os.md

> versions on the features you use or the specific developments that you have built on your platform (modules,
> widgets, plugins).

If you have feature requests or want to report a bug, please go to our
[Github](https://github.com/centreon/centreon/issues/new/choose).

## Centreon Web

### 22.10.0

#### Enhancements

- [ACL] ACLs on actions are now updated in real time for connected users
- [ACL] "Read/Write" Menu access ACL regarding Poller configuration have been split into two available actions: "Create and edit" and "Delete"
- [API] Added an endpoint to perform all web updates
- [Authentication] Improved authentication via OpenID Connect by adding conditions
- [Authentication] Improved contact groups management via OpenID Connect:
  - Manual management of relationships between a user and contact groups
  - Automatic management of relationships between a user and contact groups based on values retrieved from the identity provider
- [Authentication] Improved roles management via OpenID Connect:
  - Manual management of relationships between a user and ACL groups
  - Automatic management of relationships between a user and ACL groups based on identity provider values

> - [Install] Addition of dependency management between modules during installation, update and deletion

Author: ```suggestion
- [Install] Added dependency management between modules during installation, update and deletion
```

- [Install] Improved error handling during installation
- [Install] Removed "Centreon Web Directory" parameter and use Apache configuration instead
- [UI] Improved Centreon light and dark themes
- [UI] Relabeled and improved tooltips for some fields in the Hosts, Host Templates, Host Groups, Services and Service Templates configuration forms
- [UI] Reworked the banner to be more responsive
- [UX] Changing themes is now possible by clicking on the profile icon

> - [UX] The quick export button is now available by default for all users that have the admin privilege or the required ACL action acces. Deploying a configuration is now simpler for all users!

Author: ```suggestion
- [UX] The quick export button is now available by default for all users that have the admin privilege or the required ACL action access. Deploying a configuration is now simpler for all users.
```

- [Configuration] Improved the default Engine logger options for newly installed central servers and new pollers created with the wizard

> - [Configuration] New Broker input/output stream types available, designed to support the new gRPC stream capability of Broker, but can also be used for legacy BBDO over TCP protocol:

Author: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] New Broker input/output stream types available, designed to support the new gRPC stream capability of Broker, but that can also be used for the legacy BBDO over TCP protocol:
```

  - BBDO Server: configures a server input or output, displaying only relevant fields for this purpose
  - BBDO Client: configures a client input or output, displaying only relevant fields for this purpose
- [Configuration] Some obsolete parameters have been removed from the Engine configuration menu
- [Optimization] The "conf changed" flag in the Poller configuration menu now relies on a faster database query, improving the time to display the page

#### Breaking changes

> The configuration of authorizations via the OpenID Connect protocol has evolved. Automatic addition to a contact
> group and role management have been improved. It is necessary to review your OpenID Connect configuration.

## Centreon Collect

### 22.10.0

#### Centreon Engine

##### Enhancements

###### Anomaly Detection improvements

- Recheck has been implemented for Anomaly Detection services, retrieving the actual value of the metric to reevaluate the AD service's status

> - Downtimes of regular services are now propageted to related Anomaly Detection service(s)

Author: ```suggestion
- Downtimes on regular services are now propagated to related Anomaly Detection service(s)
```

###### Settings improvements

- Change the log level of some notification log messages

> - Observations on platforms in the field showed us that the default maximum number of queries per transaction (10000) was too high and caused too much delay, so we set it 2000 by default

Author: ```suggestion
- Observations on platforms in the field showed us that the default maximum number of queries per transaction (10000) was too high and caused too much delay, so we set it to 2000 by default
```

###### Code improvements

- Improved the management of `timed_events` objects
- Improved the memory management of downtimes

> - Calls to `atoi()` C function have been replaced by more secured functions

Author: ```suggestion
- Calls to the `atoi()` C function have been replaced by more secure functions
```

#### Centreon Broker

##### Enhancements

> ###### Imrpoving communication

Author: ```suggestion
###### Improved communication
```

> - Two new broker streams are available, meant to provide simpler configuration and support of gRPC protocol.

Author: ```suggestion
- Two new broker streams are available, meant to provide simpler configuration and support of the gRPC protocol.
```

- It is now possible to limit the maximum total size of Broker retention files using the `event_queues_total_size` global parameter
- The default `retry_interval` has been changed from 60 to 15, in the configuration WUI as well as in the source code for a shorter time to reconnect

###### gRPC API features

> - The log levels can be accessed and changed without reloading thanks to `GetLogInfo {}` and `SetLogLevel {"logger": "<logger>", "level": "<log level>"}` gRPC commands

Author: ```suggestion
- The log levels can be accessed and changed without reloading thanks to the `GetLogInfo {}` and `SetLogLevel {"logger": "<logger>", "level": "<log level>"}` gRPC commands
```

> - Any residues of a deleted poller can be removed definitely thanks to `RemovePoller {}` gRPC command

Author: ```suggestion
- All traces of a deleted poller can be removed permanently thanks to the `RemovePoller {}` gRPC command
```

###### Code improvements

> - Calls to `atoi()` C function have been replaced by more secured functions

Author: ```suggestion
- Calls to the `atoi()` C function have been replaced by more secure functions
```

  - BBDO Client: configures a client input or output, displaying only relevant fields for this purpose
- [Configuration] Some obsolete parameters have been removed from the Engine configuration menu
- [Install] Added dependency management between modules during installation, update and deletion
- [Install] Improved error handling during installation
- [Install] Removed "Centreon Web Directory" parameter and use Apache configuration instead
- [UI] Improved Centreon light and dark themes
- [UI] Relabeled and improved tooltips for some fields in the Hosts, Host Templates, Host Groups, Services and Service
  Templates configuration forms
- [UI] Reworked the banner to be more responsive
- [UX] Changing themes is now possible by clicking on the profile icon
- [UX] The quick export button is now available by default for all users that have the admin privilege or the required
  ACL action access. Deploying a configuration is now simpler for all users.
- [Resources Status] Manage hosts and services categories (Detail tiles, Listing filter)
- [Resources Status] Manage hosts and services severities (Logos, level, Detail tiles, Listing filter)

> - [Event logs] Rework CSV exporter in event logs to manage high volumetry

Reviewer: Reworked

> - [Resources Status] Introduce CSV export in Timeline and Graphs

Reviewer: Introduced

> - [Resources Status] New Parent Alias column and filter in listing for services

Reviewer: Added new Parent Alias column and filter in listing for services

> - [Resources Status] Timeline UI in Resources Status cosmetic enhancements

Reviewer: Added timeline UI in Resources Status cosmetic enhancements

> - [Anomaly Detection] New type of resources in Resource Status (display and filter)

Reviewer: Added new type of resources in Resource Status (display and filter)

> - [Anomaly Detection] Prediction enveloppe size management by user from Resources Status

Reviewer: Added prediction enveloppe size management by user from Resources Status

#### Performances

- Move to PHP 8.1
- The "conf changed" flag in the Poller configuration menu now relies on a faster database query, improving the time to display the page

#### Breaking changes

> The configuration of authorizations via the OpenID Connect protocol has evolved. Automatic addition to a contact
> group and role management have been improved. It is necessary to review your OpenID Connect configuration.

> > In /monitoring/resources API, ‘severity_level’ api return key has been replaced by a json object ‘severity’ containing id, level, name and icon

Reviewer: The sentence is missing a period.

## Centreon Collect

### 22.10.0

#### Centreon Engine

##### Enhancements

> ###### Anomaly Detection improvements

Reviewer: Title to remove and add prefixes instead on each item: [Anomaly Detection] or [Ano-Detection]?

- Recheck has been implemented for Anomaly Detection services, retrieving the actual value of the metric to reevaluate the AD service's status

> - Downtimes on regular services are now propagated to related Anomaly Detection service(s)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Anomaly Detection] Downtimes on regular services are now propagated to related Anomaly Detection service(s)
```

> ###### Settings improvements

Reviewer: Title to remove and add prefixes instead on each item: [Settings]

> - Change the log level of some notification log messages

Reviewer: Changed

> - Change the log level of some notification log messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Settings] Changed the log level of some notification log messages
```

> - Observations on platforms in the field showed us that the default maximum number of queries per transaction (10000) was too high and caused too much delay, so we set it to 2000 by default

Reviewer: Optimized the delay time by setting the default maximum number of queries per transaction in the (what field?) field to 2000

> - Observations on platforms in the field showed us that the default maximum number of queries per transaction (10000) was too high and caused too much delay, so we set it to 2000 by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Settings] Optimized the delay time by setting the default maximum number of queries per transaction in the field to 2000
```

> ###### Code improvements

Reviewer: Title to remove and add prefixes instead on each item: [Code]

> ###### Code improvements

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> - Improved the management of `timed_events` objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Code] Improved the management of `timed_events` objects
```

> - Improved the memory management of downtimes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Code] Improved the memory management of downtimes
```

> - Calls to the `atoi()` C function have been replaced by more secure functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Code] Calls to the `atoi()` C function have been replaced by more secure functions
```

#### Centreon Broker

##### Enhancements

> ###### Improved communication

Reviewer: Title to remove and add prefixes instead on each item: [Communication]

> ###### Improved communication

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> - Two new broker streams are available, meant to provide simpler configuration and support of the gRPC protocol.

Reviewer: Added two new Broker streams to provide simpler configuration and support the gRPC protocol

> - Two new broker streams are available, meant to provide simpler configuration and support of the gRPC protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Communication] Added two new Broker streams to provide simpler configuration and support the gRPC protocol
```

> - It is now possible to limit the maximum total size of Broker retention files using the `event_queues_total_size` global parameter

Reviewer: Added the ability to limit the maximum total size of Broker retention files using the `event_queues_total_size` global parameter

> - It is now possible to limit the maximum total size of Broker retention files using the `event_queues_total_size` global parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Communication] Added the ability to limit the maximum total size of Broker retention files using the event_queues_total_size global parameter
```

> - The default `retry_interval` has been changed from 60 to 15, in the configuration WUI as well as in the source code for a shorter time to reconnect

Reviewer: Changed the default `retry_interval` from 60 to 15, in the configuration WUI...

> - The default `retry_interval` has been changed from 60 to 15, in the configuration WUI as well as in the source code for a shorter time to reconnect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Communication] Changed the default retry_interval from 60 to 15, in the configuration WUI as well as in the source code for a shorter time to reconnect
```

> ###### gRPC API features

Reviewer: Title to remove and add prefixes instead on each item: [gRPC API]

> ###### gRPC API features

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> - The log levels can be accessed and changed without reloading thanks to the `GetLogInfo {}` and `SetLogLevel {"logger": "<logger>", "level": "<log level>"}` gRPC commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [gRPC API] The log levels can be accessed and changed without reloading thanks to the `GetLogInfo {}` and `SetLogLevel {"logger": "<logger>", "level": "<log level>"}` gRPC commands
```

> - All traces of a deleted poller can be removed permanently thanks to the `RemovePoller {}` gRPC command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [gRPC API] All traces of a deleted poller can be removed permanently thanks to the `RemovePoller {}` gRPC command
```

> ###### Code improvements

Reviewer: Title to remove and add prefixes instead on each item: [Code]

> ###### Code improvements

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> - Calls to the `atoi()` C function have been replaced by more secure functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Code] Calls to the `atoi()` C function have been replaced by more secure functions
```

## Centreon Gorgone

> 

Reviewer: Add "Compatibility with other 22.10 components."?

### 22.10.0

> #### Enhancements

Reviewer: Remove this title

> #### Enhancements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compatibility with other 22.10 components.
```

---
id: centreon-os
title: Centreon Open Source
---

## Introduction

You can find in this chapter all changelogs concerning **Centreon Open Source**.

> It is very important when you update your system to refer to this section in order to learn about behavior changes or
> major changes that have been made on this version. This will let you know the impact of the installation of these
> versions on the features you use or the specific developments that you have built on your platform (modules,
> widgets, plugins).

If you have feature requests or want to report a bug, please go to our
[Github](https://github.com/centreon/centreon/issues/new/choose).

## Centreon Web

### 22.10.0

#### Enhancements

> - [ACL] Updated ACL actions in real time for connected users

Author: ```suggestion
- [ACL] ACLs on actions are now updated in real time for connected users
```

- [API] Added an endpoint to perform all web updates
- [Authentication] Improved authentication via OpenID Connect by adding conditions
- [Authentication] Improved contact groups management via OpenID Connect:
  - Manual management of relationships between a user and contact groups

>   - Automatic management of relationships between a user and groups of contacts based on values from the identity provider

Author: ```suggestion
  - Automatic management of relationships between a user and contact groups based on values retrieved from the identity provider
```

- [Authentication] Improved roles management via OpenID Connect:
  - Manual management of relationships between a user and ACL groups
  - Automatic management of relationships between a user and ACL groups based on identity provider values
- [Install] Addition of dependency management between modules during installation, update and deletion
- [Install] Improved error handling during installation

> - [Install] Removed "Centreon Web Directory" parameter to use Apache configuration

Author: ```suggestion
- [Install] Removed "Centreon Web Directory" parameter and use Apache configuration instead
```

- [UI] Improved Centreon light and dark themes
- [UI] Reworked the banner to be more responsive

> - [UX] Changing themes is now available by clicking on the profile icon.

Author: ```suggestion
- [UX] Changing themes is now possible by clicking on the profile icon.
```

#### Breaking changes

> > The configuration of authorizations via the OpenId Connect protocol has evolved. Automatic addition to a contact

Author: ```suggestion
> The configuration of authorizations via the OpenID Connect protocol has evolved. Automatic addition to a contact
```

> > group and role management have been improved. It is necessary to review your OpenId Connect configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
> group and role management have been improved. It is necessary to review your OpenID Connect configuration.
```
